.\"  SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later
.\"  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026, Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
.\"  Written by Damien Le Moal <damien.lemoal@wdc.com>
.\"
.TH ZONAR 8
.SH NAME
zonar \- Show file system use of zoned devices

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zonar
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR...] \fIpath\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zonar
provides a graphical interface to visualize blockgroups of a zoned
filesystem. \fBzonar\fP also allows inspecting the file extents
stored in blockgroups as well as the location on the device of file extents.
When not using the \fR\-\-connect\fP or \fR\-\-listen\fP options, \fIpath\fP
must specify the mount directory of the file system to inspect.

Currently \fBzonar\fP only supports XFS.

.SH OPTIONS
\fBzonar\fP options are as follows.
.TP
.BR \-\-help,\ \-h
Display a command line help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose,\ \-v
Enable verbose mode (for debugging).
.TP
.BR \-\-version,\ \-V
Display \fBzonar\fP version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-connect,\ \-c\ \fIipaddr\fP
Specify the IP address of the server to connect to. This option cannot be used
together with the option \fR\-\-listen\fP. If used, a mount directory
\fIpath\fP must not be specified.
.TP
.BR \-\-listen,\ \-l
Reverse connection mode: instead of connecting to the server, listen for
connections from the server.  This option cannot be used together with the
option \fR\-\-connect\fP. If used, a mount directory \fIpath\fP must not be
specified.
.TP
.BR \-\-port,\ \-p\ \fIport\fP
Specify the port number to connect to the server or to listen for connection
on.

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Wilfred Mallawa <wilfred.mallawa@wdc.com>
Alistair Francis <alistair.francis@wdc.com>
Damien Le Moal <damien.lemoal@wdc.com>
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zonar_srv (8)

.SH AVAILABILITY
The zonar application is available on GitHub
.UR https://github.com/westerndigitalcorporation/zonar
.UE .
